okay I think that we can start again good morning everyone in latin america welcome to today's panel that we call it innovating colombian financial system I'm gabriel bisama i lead international I'm gabriel bisama I lead international policy at the Stellar development foundation and today we have three experienced panelists that we are going to discuss the opportunities and challenges of using blockchain technology for cross-border payments and specifically what we are going to
specifically what we are going to discuss is how the use of blockchain technology and stablecoins can expand the access and usage of affordable financial services and how actually they could provide a positive impact to inclusion and economy by contributing reducing the cost of cross-border payments so i think that cross-border payments so I think that everyone here that connect to this panel they know that the average cost of cross-border payments remains very high right now so it amounts to almost six percent of the amount that you send which is more than the double of the sustainable development goals target that is actually three percent so this high cost of remittances payments have real world impacts on individuals and small businesses so for example high costs impact migrants seeking to some money home for their
seeking to some money home for their families also small businesses important products from foreign suppliers and non-profit organizations such as eight organizations that are actually there this person fans for humanitarian aid so blockchain technology and the responsible design and use of stable coins could enable more affordable cross-border payments including remittances but also b2b payments that finalize in seconds and actually cause fractions of a cent mainly due to the reduction of intermediation so today we are going to get into the details of on a project that we are doing in colombia with two ecosystem partners of the Stellar development foundation and also we will have diana from the latin american development bank to speak a little bit about how to embed financial education into the consumer experience
the consumer experience but before getting into the details and discussions with the panelists i just want to I just want to give you a brief overview and intro to the Stellar network for those who are not familiar with it so Stellar is an open blockchain with control capabilities for issuers and what does this mean so actually is a blockchain is a network that actually gives on the one hand controls to asset issuers that ensures safety and security of a permission or closed network but at the same time it leverage openness and interpretivity that foster competition innovation and inclusion and the some examples of this just to give you some clear examples is aml and cft features and clovax so something that is called authorization
something that is called authorization require is a flag that it could be when you when an asset is your issues an asset it could he could make sure that it has this aml and cfd feature that ensures that a financial entity when he's distributing an asset identifies who is the holder of that asset and this would gives controls to actually to the issuer that aml and cft regulations are being that aml and cft regulations are being comply with so we think that aml and cft is important but also clawbacks are important so if an asset issuer such as a regulated financial entity or a fintech or a digital wallet or even a central bank that issues a cbdc actually include this flag on the asset gives the possibility of to the issuer to recover the funds in the event of a fraud for example but
the event of a fraud for example but this is not only relevant because of in the case of fraudulent transactions but also is relevant if for example any a user loss lose the private keys so we think that clawbacks are really important and just to step back a little bit and someday downstair it was established in 2014 and so actually it's one of the blockchains that is most established and it's designed or it was designed for payments like the main use case right now on seller is crossword payments but also we are working in other use cases such as cbdc's and using blockchain for distributing humanitarian aid since it launched the network process more than 2.6 billion transactions and currently is processing more than six million transactions in a day-to-day basis
basis the other piece that is important if you would like to promote the use of blockchain technology that could as well promote financial inclusion we need to make sure that the technology is sustainable so one of the things that we would like to make sure is actually that the technology yeah it doesn't consume a lot of energy so we it doesn't consume a lot of energy so we are in the next couple of weeks we are going to publish some research on the energy consumption on standard on the energy consumption on standard and the data is really promising so that is something that we are that is something that we are really happy of and it is supported by the sera development foundation which mission is to promote the access and use of financial services and actually the foundation is a non-profit organization and is it's not a charity actually it pays taxes in the u.s specifically in california and
california and the whole goal of the whole goal of the foundation is to support the development of the network so with that i think that of the network so with that I think that we can start but before starting we can start but before starting actually this panel is in led up to the textured startup weekend blockchain mexico city that is that blockchain mexico city that is going to happen next weekend and actually this is an event that brings together the community in latin america that is building solutions in finance but not only on Stellar in any blockchain so actually we are inviting those developers and startups and fintechs and others that actually are building products in latin america and if you have a good idea to solve and if you have a good idea to solve any problem for the target audience that we work in terms of payments you are more than invited to attend in person or even virtually
attend in person or even virtually the hackathon so actually there you have the link to sign up so feel free to do it and if you have feel free to do it and if you have any questions you can ask me or any questions you can ask me or anki after this panel after this panel so with that i think that now we are ready to I think that now we are ready to start the discussion so first of all i would like to so first of all I would like to i would ask I would ask ivan to introduce himself and also provide a brief overview of unclapped and what is doing in unclapped and what is doing in latin america and specifically in colombia hey gabriel how are you all hey gabriel how are you all thank you for joining us for joining us yeah i am working in a club yeah I am working in a club here in latin america in latin america we are connecting all latin we are connecting all latin american countries to the
american countries to the Stellar network through establishment we issue establishment for every currency every latin american currency so people could access to these global payment networks not only people but also any platform any business that needs or that finds an opportunity here to transact worldwide i like the speed and worldwide I like the speed and almost free cool who could get that tax is really that tax is really fast so we are working we started fast so we are working we started in argentina we are working in colombia and also in peru and we are under our road map is to and we are under our road map is to work on other countries within this latin america region so that is what we do we
that is what is what we do we are connecting we are connecting every single latin american country to this global payment network thank you very much for that iman we are going to get into the titles of what are going to get into the titles of what unclub is doing specifically in colombia but thank you very much for the intro I mean do you want to introduce yourself and provide a brief overview of inclusive and its products absolutely thank you very much for having us and it's great to be here with having us and it's great to be here with yvonne and the Stellar team as well and we're really excited about pursuing the partnership to connect latime countries and the cross-border payments space weave inclusive you can see from our name we are all about financial inclusion and share that mission with don klopsteller and the ecosystem we are a hybrid fintech and regtech platform where we provide a full stack financial crimes compliance or anti-money laundering platform that enables all of the essential know your customer know your business
customer know your business anti-money laundering anti-fraud controls transaction monitoring and the like in one workflow and it's built to enable both traditional financial services companies compliance needs as well as decentralized financial services including blockchain ecosystems like the Stellar network so we enable a number of other anchors across the platform globally to ensure that there's a consistent approach for know your customer anti-money laundering with our global framework we you can think of us as a framework we you can think of us as a organ orchestration layer that brings under one roof is to do everything from identity verification and validation legal entity verification and validation across the globe as other anchors and nodes on the Stellar blockchain originate their clients either retail individuals or business clients that need to have these essential kyc kyb elements in place and then the associated transaction monitoring and other pieces of the anti-money laundering stack
laundering stack importantly we are very excited about our partnership with Stellar because they recognize that there is a need for a consistency of approach in the anti-money laundering framework as many jurisdictions have different rules governing we are built to the global standards of the financial action task force and many in our company are actually former global regulators whether they be with the us or others by my part for example i spent or others by my part for example I spent the early part of my career at the u.s the early part of my career at the u.s treasury department working with institutions like the fatf on anti-money laundering frameworks so the advent of the Stellar ecosystem and blockchain enabling tools that facilitate a much faster efficient cross-border payments ecosystem is exciting in that regard but they all need compliance in that regard we therefore are also an anchor on the Stellar blockchain and the fintech side is we provide connectivity for those payments into the us traditional banking and payments ecosystem ach payments wire payments and the like so we can connect with yvonne's
the like so we can connect with yvonne's team and the customers that they are working with to facilitate cross-border payments for household remittances small business payments and the like and enable on and off ramping for assets that are transacted on the Stellar blockchain for example like usdc that may come inbound to counterparts to be paid in the u.s where we can then off-ramp to the u.s payment system and then push or pull funds using ach or wires and as well as outbound flows as well so we perform two key functions we're a gateway between traditional financial and banking ecosystems in the united states to be able to hold funds in accounts with our partner banks in the u.s access those ach and wire rails and then be able to on and off ramp for payments using the global Stellar blockchain ecosystem and working with partners like yvonne to really connect the latin american business and household community in their cross-border payments needs and by doing so we enable a very consistent approach by also providing some proprietary capabilities around
some proprietary capabilities around compliance backed digital identity credentials for clients that come into the ecosystem that provides great efficiencies when we do kyc support because of these often are very redundant so we can issue and validate compliance-backed verifiable digital credentials for clients within that ecosystem so as different nodes originate their clients they can have one kyc gateway and be able to have a one kyc gateway and be able to have a utility in the ecosystem while importantly also protecting their privacy and so the combination of these compliance tools with the blockchain elements that associate payments flows between digital assets and fiat assets with this on and off ramp capability is where we sit and we're excited about participating in growing the ecosystem and really driving cross-border payments in a much more efficient but also secure and compliant way you very much for that amir and inclusivis is a really good example on how financial entities are
on how financial entities are connected to Stellar i actually connected to Stellar I actually care a lot about aml cfd and compliance so I'm really happy to hear all of all that i mean all of all that I mean is going to tell us today so moving forward diana do you want to introduce yourself and provide a beef overview of like half i think that most of the audience half I think that most of the audience would know the cafe but it would be great to hear that from you yeah thank you gabriella thank you for the invitation to participate in the webinar caf is a development back the development bank of latin america and we are committed to improving the quality of life of all latin america's latin americans and caribbeans and our cap actions promote sustainable development and the integration of the
development and the integration of the region and we support we provide financial support and consulting services to both the public and private sectors in our shell shareholder countries which are 20 countries 18 countries in latin america and the caribbean plus spain and portugal in addition we generate a knowledge to strengthen our public policies in latin america and the caribbean in order to improve the quality and impact of the projects that we promote i actually work as the I actually work as the coordinator of the financial inclusion program which is a program within the private sector efforts that cafe is working with all the countries in latin america and the caribbean
thank you very much for that brief overview diana and it's a pleasure having you here as well and I'm making sure that you are involved in the project from a financial inclusion and also from a financial education standpoint that is something standpoint that is something that is really that is really important for us so after this quick introductions I think that we can start with the panel and we can get into the details on the project that we are doing in colombia and just to give you a brief in colombia and just to give you a brief overview of that what we are doing with unclap and amp inclusive is try to under pile up project try to gather data on how much is the cost of sending funds across water using the Stellar blockchain and we are really happy to see the results after that in terms of the pricing and the potential savings that actually someone sending money from
that actually someone sending money from the us and someone receiving money from colombia can make use in using blockchain so actually with this background i have the actually with this background I have the first question for you amid is actually what do you think that are the benefits and opportunities of using blockchain and stablecoins for cross-border payments for someone who is living in the u.s and is willing to send money to latin and is willing to send money to latin america for example to colombia thank you very much for the question the core really comes down to three benefits cost efficiency as well as security right the ability to leverage stable coins like usdc over the Stellar blockchain enable near real-time payments between anchors on the blockchain on the ecosystem and those anchors connect directly to their
those anchors connect directly to their clients and those clients can be individuals that hold wallets they're operating with a native application to a fintech provider in that home country life inclusive is doing for businesses and others in the us and onclop is doing across latam the ability to on-ramp to usdc from local fiat currencies or quite frankly any other asset that's issued and transacted whether they be stable coins or all coins on Stellar provides a tremendous amount of efficiency so you can go from fiat to stable coin back to fiat in many fiat to stable coin back to fiat in many ways much faster than you can send an international wire payment between two intermediaries that are then representing multiple banks or others between the ultimate client sender and ultimate beneficiary recipient and so you get both the speed and efficiency associated with that the cost efficiencies that are therefore enabled
efficiencies that are therefore enabled can streamline this because when you go through multiple intermediaries multiple correspondent banks with three five seven plus day settlement times you not only lose time to get that what may be a small dollar payment for a household or even a large transaction value payment for a non-profit that is trying to provide organizations in need for humanitarian relief or corporates and legal entities trying to make payroll payments supply chain payments vendor payments and others you get a speed and efficiency as well as a cost advantage lastly and importantly the blockchain's underlying attributes give us certain capabilities from a security and compliance perspective the commitment to risk and compliance within the context of the Stellar ecosystem helps benefit that while because we provide essential kyc kyb elements know your customer know your business elements and therefore issue unique digital credentials what that enables is that in
credentials what that enables is that in individual context in those countries when they onboard a client an individual and they go through the identity verification document non-documentary background sanction screening processes many of these are very piecemeal and we can consolidate them through the inclusive ecosystem they it we can issue these credentials and now any node that is therefore needing to validate an individual or a business that's been onboarded and run through that kyc kyb process can do so near instantaneously and that is a significant hurdle both from an efficiency and cost perspective because anti-money laundering elements tend to be expensive and tend to be very tend to be expensive and tend to be very redundant so this provides a an answer to the redundant applications of aml and kyc while also creating security by enabling these verifiable credentials that protect underlying privacy information whereas in the traditional financial services context when a sender sends money through multiple intermediaries to a recipient in a
intermediaries to a recipient in a foreign country you have to disclose underlying account and personal information through that payment chain and one is able to do so now con and one is able to do so now con in adherence to those compliance rules without having to attach the very underlying privacy information and because the ledger is immutable you can search both transactions from an anti-fraud anti-money laundering perspective as well as ensure that there's no illicit activity that's happening in the system so the immutability of the ledger the transparency that it provides while also cr creating a privacy protection layer is inherently part and parcel of blockchain technology when combined in this ecosystem like through the Stellar development foundation support of the Stellar network and companies like on klopp and inclusive now you get like on klopp and inclusive now you get connectivity between asset issuance payments and the interconnectivity between stable coins and fiat currencies in multiple markets with the kyc anti-money laundering layer so net
anti-money laundering layer so net result is you get security speed and efficiency that's great from a colombian perspective so actually someone who is receiving funds from the u.s to colombia ivan what do you think that are the main ivan what do you think that are the main benefits of using blockchain and also stable coins for cross-border payments ah the benefits amit has saw a lot of the benefits and i deeply agree on what he said but i see here i see that this technology I see here I see that this technology the honor from services that we provide the whole ecosystem and the protection that tools that inclusive is bringing to the to inclusive is bringing to the network allows not only to the network allows not only to receive money for remittance but also to small business to
also to small business to transact worldwide i mean worldwide I mean this is technology that not only this is technology that not only allow us to help those people that couldn't or doesn't have access to financial services or are paid to financial services or are paid too much for getting money from abroad but also to small businesses to start offering their products and service to other countries in colombia the on like others com other countries of the region of the latin region argentina and others the necessity is clear because of the lack of formal jobs there are a huge cash network that probably and that's also
also something that we should work on it's something that hurts the people economy maybe if you are not if you don't have the if you are not if you don't have the enough financial education and that is where we want to work here to work here maybe you don't realize how much how are you losing using are you losing using traditional rights or maybe you are used to use that rights but using this technology using this network it could benefit people not only to get money from a relative in the u.s faster and cheaper but also to start working on their to start working on their personal economy i mean how to use money
personal economy I mean how to use money how to save how to how you could offer to how you could offer your personal services like i don't know your personal services like I don't know you could go through you could go through i don't know a ternary or to a I don't know a ternary or to a live streamer a gamer and this phrase this blockchain race allow people to start transacting worldwide but using our domestic currency or the currency you want but at the end of the day if you but at the end of the day if you when you need to consume and use local financial services for local payments or whatever you need there is a way to need there is a way to interact with between the digital network and the local financial system and that the local financial system and that is what we do we
that is what we do we will represent the local currency and allow people to move from one world to the other world easily so i think I'm pretty sure that I think I'm pretty sure that there is a this is a next job charter next job charter in our region when talking about in our region when talking about financial services and on financial opportunities for people but i also I also like i look i also want to highlight the like I look I also want to highlight the benefits that small businesses or freelancers or self-employed people could be benefit of this entire network not only people who are receiving money from abroad but also to develop your economy as a and
to develop your economy as a and integrate yourself and provide your services worldwide and i think that is huge worldwide and I think that is huge probably and I'm sure we have to we have to work really hard on financial education that is a must to have here but this technology and this ecosystem have a lot to do with people and as soon as the to do with people and as soon as the people start seeing and feeling the benefits of all this network sooner or later they will become more familiar with it and of course that is a process and we start trying to demonstrate that using this blockchain rails for transacting and for using your money on and accessing financial services it's
and accessing financial services it's the first step for a huge other opportunities in a next few years this is really interesting thank you very much for that ivana and i think very much for that ivana and I think that you touch upon different issues that i would like to ask to issues that I would like to ask to the anna in terms of personal finance and financial education so we have spoken a lot about benefits and opportunities but in this context we're actually in order to send money for example from the u.s to colombia you need maybe a smartphone you need connectivity how do you think that financial education and financial literacy and also digital literacy is relevant for someone who is receiving money in for someone who is receiving money in colombia and how would you approach actually financial education in this context
financial education in this context yes thank you gabriel i think that yes thank you gabriel I think that we need to think first we need to think first what is financial education because i mean because I mean just traditionally financial education programs have been built on the assumption that transferring information to financial consumers about how to use financial products would lead to better choices and improved financial health however evidence from numerous impact evaluations over the past decade suggests that this assumption is flawed and there is a growing body of evidence showing that interventions designed using principles from with behavioral economics are more likely to improve people's money management behavior than other interventions so
than other interventions so financial inclusion we at cap are working on programs on the improvement on financial inclusion and we see that this requires financially capable customers who actively use products for their benefits and the ultimate goal of financial education programs is to help develop financially capable customers those with the attitudes the those with the attitudes the knowledge the skills and behaviors to make financial decisions to improve their lives and there is also evidence that shows that higher levels of financial capabilities are related to greater levels of financial well-being or financial health through financial attitudes skills and behavior such as a savings behavior previous own experience with the financial sector comparison among
financial sector comparison among different financial institutions before acquiring a new financial product personal participation or involvement in the in the financial decisions of the in the financial decisions of the household among others so we see that for example this project could benefit a lot from incorporating financial education from this behavior perspective i mean taking behavior perspective I mean taking into account the needs of the customer needs and their behavior and incorporating these kind of notches that will help the customer or the remittance receiver to improve their savings behavior for example so we see this as a so we see this as a very important opportunity to
very important opportunity to incorporate these financial education evidence into this product in colombia yeah I totally agree with that I mean if actually you need to make sure that you need to make sure that when you approach financial education you can help you can help individuals and adults to improve their financial to improve their financial capabilities and therefore their financial health by changing behavior so i think that this is the I think that this is the approach that evidence tell us and I'm happy to hear that the latin american development bank is working on that as well and can also contribute to do this to this project so moving forward in terms of not only what is going on in colombia but also what is going on in
but also what is going on in the region i would like to the region I would like to bail on the answer on that amit previously made in terms of the offering of other products in of the offering of other products in latin america so the question that i have for you i mean is whether of I have for you I mean is whether of inclusive right now is planning to expand the offering of financial services in latin america in addition to this pilot that is working to this pilot that is working with angle app so if you want to elaborate on that would be great that would be great sure thank you very much yes the short answer to that is yes and in a short answer to that is yes and in a couple different and distinct ways one is we want to make sure that first one is we want to make sure that first and foremost that we can provide the essential financial crimes compliance aml toolkit so that any organization that's building within the context of the Stellar ecosystem has a you know truly a plug-and-play solution for their aml and kyc and kyb needs and
for their aml and kyc and kyb needs and that there's ecosystem efficiencies built in with some of the capabilities that we provide in particular with the digital digitally verifiable credentials that equally applied to individuals and small businesses like yvonne said in particular it's not just households and individuals that are trying to get access to financial services but also small businesses that really is the engine of global job growth certainly the case in the us certainly the case in latam and if we can create the case in latam and if we can create more enablements for them in two or three distinct ways one especially in markets that have a number of different macro economic humanitarian or other considerations to review one is whether they be capital controls high inflation rates and the like individuals at the household level and organizations want to know that when they hold value that value is secure and so to the extent that we can secure and so to the extent that we can provide connectivity for
provide connectivity for organizations within the context of the lat time community like unclop and others that can connect individuals to their therefore hold value in a u.s account that provides some stability with respect to that the insured accounts that we can provide through some of our bank partners the second is that there are a number of organizations including and built within the context of the Stellar ecosystem that are also providing savings and or other higher yield account structures so higher yield usdc for example where organizations and individuals can now hold value in much more stable ways that provide a little bit higher yield than say for example non-interest bearing or other accounts that might happen the third is in the payment side and obviously that's a core value proposition with the Stellar ecosystem driving down the cost of payments but really folks really want to be able to transfer value securely and in near real time and while some of the
in near real time and while some of the organizations may be legal entities corporate enterprises are less concerned about the multi-day settlement they just want to ensure that there is a secure way to send value they certainly want to minimize the market and other volatility characteristics that some of the alternative coins offer and this is where stable coins like usdc play a very large value having interoperability very large value having interoperability into local fiat systems is the fourth space and congrats to the space and congrats to the group and yvonne and others like him that are trying to provide the ability to connect fiat in local currency either as a payout or as a pay in to a either as a payout or as a pay in to a stable coin ecosystem that now is interoperable and then fifthly i interoperable and then fifthly I should say is that what we are working to expand within the context of the Stellar community is obviously not only is there interconnectivity between latam and the us but there's greater interconnectivity between latam and africa and
between latam and africa and europe africa and the us and you now have organizations that are globally engaged we ourselves are a decentralized company we have individuals based all over the us but also in europe and elsewhere and these small businesses now have the ability in a digitizing economy even if you're five people 10 people to have individual contractors subcontractors vendors suppliers counterparts all over the world and that requires an ecosystem that is community bank like but in a global and peer-to-peer global in a global and peer-to-peer functioning way that's exciting so as we have small businesses that enable an individual in rural africa or in europe or latam to transact just as an inter-company set of financial services or they're transacting with their beneficiaries vendors suppliers and other counterparties in their ecosystem like gamers like subcontractors like freelancers like small medium
freelancers like small medium merchants and the like operating in these marketplaces those marketplaces want to secure value transfer ecosystem and they want to do so compliantly so those are the four or five ways that we are looking to expand these services beyond just compliance thank you very much for that is impressive to be honest and i look forward to hearing more in and I look forward to hearing more in a couple of months ivan do you want to share some details on the pilot that actually you are working with that actually you are working with inclusive and also we are we are in a phase where at some point we are going to work as well with the we are going to work as well with the latin american development bank and basically if you want to also provide some details on the road map on in colombia in the short and medium term that would be great okay yeah we yeah we are working together with inclusive
we are working together with inclusive on build and building bringing a solution for remittances okay between us and colombia but people need to understand that what we are bringing at the end of the day is infrastructure so all other companies or developers can build solutions on top of this race but we what we are doing is just building brands compliance race and of course what we are doing today is working hand by hand with local regulators within colombia because of its highly within colombia because of its highly necessary to them for to get our best understanding of what we do and what how this blockchain race could help not only people but also the
help not only people but also the entire financial industry providing more financial products and services to the people so what we do is bring in bringing services bringing bring bringing infrastructure okay so not only us today we are working to bring a remittances platform for colombians to get money from their relatives in the us or send money to the us but once we can prove that this rate this infrastructure is compliant is it's huge for the standard it's huge for the standard traditional
traditional remittances services much faster and cheaper for people we will start working on letting they know that it is an infrastructure that any other company within colombia or within any other country because we are a huge network can bring products financial services on top of this infrastructure and that is what we are working today we are still not life in colombia because of we need to have a huge understanding of what we do of what we do with regulators and of course we are working of course we are working together with them and we are together with them and we are working to run the project within the to run the project within the local regulation sandbox
the local regulation sandbox for them to have the best understanding of what we do and of course as bigger and as a robust as bigger and as a robust the project could be if we work the project could be if we work together on this of course the whole industry will be will get the benefits of this infrastructure i assume i think that probably in I assume I think that probably in the next month we could launch the platform the platform but again I'm a technical guy and i insist that i will i would love to see I insist that I will I would love to see other companies within colombia or u.s to start thinking financial solutions to build on top of these blockchain rails we are working to prove
we are working to prove that is that it represents a huge benefit for people but please those companies or developers that are seeing this panel please have in mind that you can you could you have in mind that you can you could bring your solutions on top of this network so that is what we are doing that is what we are doing still working with regulators to make pretty sure that we are okay and we make pretty sure that we are okay and we have the grant to have the because the to have the because the local ecosystem with this with the local ecosystem with this technology and as soon as we could move forward you know in a few months we will launch the remittances platform but and start working on other solutions or other fine financial
other solutions or other fine financial services like local payments or worldwide payments whatever i hope not being I hope not being me who brings those solutions but other companies to build on top of the infrastructure we are bringing and that's the history and I'm really excited on what we are doing and of course what we are doing and of course having a huge partners like the like having a huge partners like the caf and the Stellar develop foundation it's huge and I'm really optimistic on that we will make really noise on the on the latin american economist and people economy thank you very much for that ivan i think that you mentioned something that is really important that is actually working together with regulators so
working together with regulators so actually these public private partnerships just to make sure that you can not actually that you can not actually the technology not only the technology but actually the use cases are developed in different kind of economies so building on that answer diana from a development perspective from a financial inclusion perspective how do you think that actually regulators and policy makers can design a landscape that is that would promote the use of the responsible use of technology for bringing more inclusion for bringing more inclusion so do you have some thoughts on that yes i think that i mean working yes I think that I mean working together with the regulator and
trying to be I mean part of the regulatory sandboxes in each country i think it's it is very country I think it's it is very important as evangelist mentioned the work that he's been doing with the financial superintendency in colombia and the regulatory in colombia and the regulatory sandbox is very important and i think sandbox is very important and I think that these partnerships are key in order i mean for in order I mean for the companies to align to the regulation and also for the regulators because they learn a lot on the these innovative business models and they adore and they can adjust the regulations to that financial innovation so i think it is innovation so I think it is very important that is a win-win from the both sides and i also think that and I also think that also incorporating these this
also incorporating these this aspect that we were talking about on financial education and consumer protection is key and for the regulator this is very important this is this is very important this is not only important to the consumer but also from the regulation point of view to incorporate these financial education and the impact of the usage of the product on the consumer protection and also the financial health of the customer yeah I totally agree with that approach and what actually you have said i have the i think that we are running out have the I think that we are running out of time so i have the last question for of time so I have the last question for all of you maybe we can start with for all of you maybe we can start with amit and then we can continue with evan and then with diana that actually we have been speaking a lot about cross-border
speaking a lot about cross-border payments and remittances and b2b payments what other use cases you envision that could be built not only on blockchain but actually in the financial innovation space that would promote access and usage of financial services and actually contributing to those who are in informal economy to start operating in the formal economy in latin america so i mean do you want to go first so I mean do you want to go first sure there are a couple and obviously thematically we've touched on some of them already the cross-border remittance use case is not only very important as it relates to household remittances and those small dollar payments that individuals are making as some folks have opined and there's a lot of data out of the world there's a lot of data out of the world bank imf and elsewhere that showed that especially outbound remittances from the u.s to many latin countries and elsewhere in the world
elsewhere in the world constitute very high percentage of even those countries gdp and the longevity for those households to actually get funds from the united states so the income economy if you will is just massive i think it's worth massive I think it's worth re-emphasizing small business payments because like i said the payments because like I said the global engine of job growth is small businesses the number of small medium enterprises and micro enterprises is really responsible for 90 plus percent of global job growth and this comes back to the changing nature of the job landscape where there are more contractors subcontractors freelancers doing work interconnected with companies all over the globe that need a much more secure and innovative financial services space small businesses are categorically seen as high risk by many traditional lenders so the not only the ability for those individuals that are themselves small businesses as a contractor or freelancer
businesses as a contractor or freelancer or what we call an independent worker but also those small businesses are competing for lending products and the extension of credit to just grow start and grow their businesses and so the that's another product that continues to be formulated within the context of fintechs as well as in blockchain enabled ecosystem so small dollar lending small business financing is massive to enable these companies to start and to grow and these can be enabled very easily in the same payments mechanisms that these blockchain networks provide like with Stellar and many of them need the appropriate due diligence to ensure that they've got the background legitimacy and effectively the worthiness to get that those products and services that those products and services and then the third and fourth i would say is the third and fourth I would say is while we often talk about the inclusion aspects within the context of private industry the non-profit and
industry the non-profit and humanitarian development sector cannot be overlooked here more and more of organizations are realizing that being able to donate in non-fiat assets is attractive we look at the conflict in ukraine within 48 72 hours the millions and millions of crypto assets that were donated on behalf of many ngos and individuals around the planet to support the cause in ukraine and this is not a one-off there are many and this is not a one-off there are many organizations many countries frontier markets those in conflict facing crises that quite frankly it's much easier for them to get a wallet and have easier for them to get a wallet and have tokens deposited and transferred to their wallet than it would be for them to get wallet than it would be for them to get any kind of fiat asset because of the absence of banking systems especially when you think about refugees and others which you're talking about tens of millions of individuals worldwide that don't have access to them and then you add the billion or so people on then you add the billion or so people on the planet that are just not born with an id well no bank traditional financial
an id well no bank traditional financial services company sees them as a legitimate party in the ecosystem and this is where not only the blockchain from a compliance perspective digital identity perspective pays huge value but then the ability to then tokenize value and create an ecosystem where you can send value to them directly in a way that's secure and then the final piece i will just say because it's final piece I will just say because it's a little outside of the financial inclusion mandate but equally relevant the financial services ecosystem and payments ecosystem is in radical need of innovation anyway and that pays tremendous dividends to corporate enterprises imagine the hundreds of billions of dollars that are transacted between corporates you know on a daily monthly and yearly basis to be able to tokenize that financing be able to do it near real time and securely takes a lot of noise and rent seeking behavior that is in the traditional financial space with the number of financial intermediaries that blockchain ecosystems like Stellar can really provide and so i think that provide and so I think that
provide and so I think that provides a much more inclusive secure economy and i think that's where the economy and I think that's where the future will be that's a great answer ivan i know that that's a great answer ivan I know that we are we have only a couple of minutes we are we have only a couple of minutes so if you want to yeah i think more use cases yeah I think more use cases could be local payments because of there are a lot of people that probably do not transact worldwide but they need and they deserve to have a way to use their money locally so it doesn't matter if they want to transact worldwide but using your money locally so it's also a great use case to use digital money and also what am i saying b2b and also what am I saying b2b payments and b2c payments i imagine and b2c payments I imagine in a few years
in a few years having go into a market and paying with my phone with a cure and the merchant with a cure and the merchant will have the money in their wallet instantly at no cost and I'm paying the same way and i imagine the same way and I imagine that local payments b2b payments and b2 b2c payments yeah totally agree with that diana what do you think yeah very quick i think more yeah very quick I think more on the financial innovation on the financial innovation perspective i see more perspective I see more consumer-centric approaches or more consumer-centric products that takes into account i mean in the in takes into account I mean in the design are the needs of the design are the needs of the different segments of population for example women products that are that have this gender perspective for example
gender perspective for example and also that includes one thing that i think it is one thing that I think it is important and i didn't touch important and I didn't touch in my in the first question in my in the first question which is the promotion of digital literacy because i mean as digital literacy because I mean as a part of the financial education programs is it is important to pay is it is important to pay special attention to foster the digital skills and knowledge of the of digital skills and knowledge of the population and the most vulnerable populations who are the ones that traditionally have been excluded from the financial system and also lacks these digital capabilities and it is important to close this gap and not to close this gap and not open another gap as we have
open another gap as we have on financial capabilities yeah totally agree with that as well so thank you very much for joining this panel we have heard actually what are the benefits and opportunities of using the blockchain technology of using the blockchain technology and stablecoins and we have heard that we have heard that security reduction of costs mitigating aml and cft trace abilities and our cft trace abilities and our benefit that i got here but benefit that I got here but also helping or contributing to small businesses to transition from the informal economy to the formal economy but also in terms of not challenges but we also need to consider financial literacy and financial education in terms of making sure that those receiving funds in a cross-border payments scenario have all the knowledge and all the knowledge and all the capability in order to use the
capability in order to use the financial services you know in a good way so evidence tell us that actually you can play around actually you can play around with different variables or elements in order to make sure that the impact of that financial education schemes are greater so with that are greater so with that we are finalizing the panel i would like finalizing the panel I would like to thank you for participating today and for participating today and I'm looking forward to continue this conversation in the nearly future so thank you very much again for so thank you very much again for the time